# JSON API *VANILLA*

Deserialize JSON API formats into *vanilla* Ruby objects.
The simplest JSON API library at all altitudes above Earth centre.

```ruby
# gem install json-api-vanilla
require "json-api-vanilla"
json = IO.read("articles.json")  # From http://jsonapi.org
doc = JSON::Api::Vanilla.parse(json)
doc.data[0].comments[1].author.last_name  # "Gebhardt"
```

Compare with [jsonapi](https://github.com/beauby/jsonapi):

```ruby
# gem install jsonapi --pre
require "jsonapi"
json = IO.read("articles.json")
doc = JSONAPI.parse(json)
comment_ref = doc.data[0].relationships.comments.data[1]
comment = doc.included.select do |obj|
  obj.type == comment_ref.type && obj.id == comment_ref.id
end[0]
author_ref = comment.relationships.author.data
author = doc.included.select do |obj|
  obj.type == author_ref.type && obj.id == author_ref.id
end[0]
author.attributes['last-name']
```

# Documentation

`JSON::Api::Vanilla.parse(json_string)` returns a document with the following
fields:

- `data` is an object corresponding to the JSON API's data object.
- `errors` is an array containing [errors](http://jsonapi.org/format/#error-objects). Each error is a Hash.
- `links` is a Hash from objects (obtained from `data`) to their links, as a
  Hash.
- `rel_links` is a Hash from objects' relationships (obtained from `data`) to
  the links defined in that relationship, as a Hash.
- `meta` is a Hash from objects to their meta information (a Hash).
- `find('type', 'id')` returns the object with that type and that id.
- `find_all('type')` returns an Array of all objects with that type.
- `keys` is a Hash from objects to a Hash from their original field names
  (non-snake\_case'd) to the corresponding object.

## User Defined Data Objects

Deserializing will automatically create the necessary Ruby objects based on the json api structure. These Ruby objects inherit from an autogenerated superclass and will be placed in an autogenerated container Module.

However, it is possible for the user to specify the container and / or the superclass like so,
```ruby
module Api
  module Resources
    class Base
    end
  end
end

JSON::Api::Vanilla.parse(json_string, container: Api::Resources, superclass: Api::Resources::Base)
```

There are 2 reasons why this is useful. The first reason is that it allows the Ruby object to define some additional methods that make it more convenient to interact with the object. For example, say the api returns an object of type persons with first name and last name as attributes. We could define a Persons class which defines `def name; [first, last].join(' '); end`. The second reason is that dynamically creating classes / methods in Ruby kills internal caching, so by reusing existing classes we gain a bit of performance and memory.

# License

Copyright © Trainline.com Limited. All rights reserved. See LICENSE.txt in the project root for license information.
